So now that we've finished
with our discussion
of the simple search
stream example,
we can kind of move
on to another topic
that I've alluded to throughout
earlier lessons in earlier
weeks, but we really haven't
explored in great detail
until now.
And this topic, of course,
will be internal versus
external iterators in Java.
So in this lesson, I'll
explain the difference
between internal and
external iterators
and how they're used in Java.
And I think some of
this will be review,
but it'll also give
us a chance to delve
a little deeper into
what's actually happening
and how to make it work
effectively for you.
So Java programmers
before Java 8, of course,
have historically--
had to before Java 8 iterate
through collections externally.
So this is kind of a
visualization illustrating
the point.
Let's say we have
a Java collection.
And then you would
have some kind of loop
like a forEach loop.
And this loop
obviously has to exist
outside of any collection.
It's just part of the
Java control constructs,
the iteration constructs.
And it would then invoke
application-supplied code
on each element, which is
what the forEach loop returns
from the collection, during
the external iteration process.
So here's just a
very simple example.
This is sort of
the visualization.
This is the code.
So let's say that we had a list
of names, which would be Larry,
Curly, Moe, the Three Stooges.
I always like to use the
Three Stooges for stuff.
And then we're going to go
ahead and have a for loop.
And this is a forEach loop.
And this forEach loop will
iterate through the collection
externally.
As you can see, we
give it the name list,
which gives us back a
string name for each element
in the name list.
And then we apply some
app-specific or app-supplied
action.
In this case, it's just
printing the name to the output.
So that's kind of the
classic way of doing things.
If we wanted to use an even
more overt iteration pattern,
we could use Java iterators.
So Java iterators
are an implementation
of the iterator pattern from the
so-called Gang of Four Design
Patterns catalog book.
And in this case, we're going
to have an iterator to a string.
We go ahead and get an
iterator for this list.
And then while there's
something left,
we go ahead and print out the
next element in the collection.
So I think you'll agree with
me that this implementation
and this implementation
both iterate externally
in the data structure.
This is not behavior that's
done inside of the list,
for example.
So in contrast, aggregate
operations in Java
are responsible for iterating
through Java Streams
internally.
And so what happens here is
that application-specific code
is passed into the framework.
And then the Java
stream will invoke
this code on each stream element
during the internal iteration
process.
So some type of
aggregate operation
is going to take some behavior
and then do something to it.
And that's done internally,
as opposed to being
done externally.
So once again, that's
kind of the visualization
of the concept.
And let's go take a closer
look at how it might actually
work in practice.
So as before, we've got
ourselves a name list
containing the Three Stooges.
And what we're
going to do here is
we're going to convert
that list into a stream.
So now we have a
stream of strings.
And then what we do is we
call the forEach method, which
is, as you recall at
this point, I'm sure,
a terminal operation defined
on the stream interface.
Remember, it takes
a stream as input,
but does not have
any stream output.
Instead, what it
does is it's going
to perform some action on
each element in the stream.
And in this particular
case, of course,
the action is to
print the results.
So that's pretty
straightforward.
But notice how this
is done internally.
You pass the code into forEach.
And that processing is
done inside the context
of the forEach method.
So just looking back
at this slide here,
you can see that the stream's
framework runs the application
code.
In contrast, if we go
back to the visualization
for the external iterator,
which I show you here,
the forEach loop is outside
the context of the collection.
And it's calling out to
application-specific code.
So it's just kind of
illustrating the differences
in these two different
ways of doing things.
Now, for something as
simple as printing out
the names of the
Three Stooges, using
a forEach loop or an iterator
or the forEach method,
it's probably in the noise.
They're all about the same.
Internal iterators
become a lot more useful
when stream pipelines become
more complex and especially,
as we'll see later, when
stream pipelines start
to include parallel streams.
Then it's way better to use
internal iteration as opposed
to external iteration
because internal iteration
can manage all the
parallel processing
behind the scenes for you.
So here's a revisit
of the example
we looked at much earlier.
But now that you've
learned more about internal
versus external
iteration, we can probably
talk about this and compare and
contrast things a little bit
more thoroughly.
So this is going to take a
list of URLs or array of URLs
and convert this array
into a stream of URLs,
actually strings in this case.
Then what we go
ahead and do is we
replace the cse.wustl
substring with
the dre.vanderbilt substring.
Then we go ahead and
convert the strings to URLs.
This is using the
somewhat crufty try
catch block approach
that you would
use because the URL
constructor expects
to throw a checked exception.
So this is sort of the
crufty way of doing things.
There's a better
way to do things
I'll show you momentarily.
And then we go ahead and
take the stream of URLs
that we collected
into a list of URLs.
So that's a way to do this using
entirely internal iteration.
I think it's probably pretty
clear that checked exceptions
are awkward.
Checked exceptions just
suck almost no matter what,
but they get really
ugly when you use them
in the context of streams.
So an alternative
way to do things
is by using some type of
exception laundering adapter.
And you can see here, here's
a little example of this.
There's a adapter
called rethrowFunction,
which takes a function that
has a checked exception.
And it basically does
the processing inside
of a try catch block
and then converts
the exception that was
the checked exception
into a runtime exception
or an unchecked exception.
So by using the
rethrowFunction method here,
we can get rid of this hideous
try catch code in our stream
and replace it with
much cleaner, much more
concise logic shown here.